Docs Install Pages (#12940)
hashicorp/vagrant: website/content/docs/installation/source.mdx

layout: docs
page_title: Installing Vagrant from Source
description: |-
  Vagrant installations from source is an advanced operation. It is only recommended
  if you cannot use the official installer.
---

# Install Vagrant from source

Vagrant installations from source is an advanced operation. We only recommended
if you cannot use the official installer. This page details the prerequisites and three
steps to install Vagrant from source.

1. Install Ruby
1. Clone Vagrant
1. Configure locally

## Install Ruby

> You must install Ruby 2.7 or newer to develop and build Vagrant. The

Reviewer: Currently Vagrant needs Ruby between 3.0 - 3.2. This will keep changing, so this can probably be a bit more vague and continue to reference the `vagrant.gemspec` to provide the most up to date info on Ruby version.

> You must install Ruby 2.2 or newer to develop and build Vagrant. The

Reviewer 2: Should set the minimum Ruby version to 2.7 as everything prior is now EOL

Author: Yea that makes sense to me.

specific Ruby version that you will need is documented in `vagrant.gemspec`, located in the repository on GitHub. It contains the most

> up-to-date requirements. 

Reviewer: These changes sound good but the new lines are a little wonky

> ~> Note that it is not recommended that you use the system Ruby. You need a Ruby version manager like RVM or chruby.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
~> **Note:** It is not recommended that you use the system Ruby. You need a Ruby version manager like RVM or chruby.
```

You will also need to be aware of plugin compatibility between Vagrant source installations and package based installations. Since Vagrant plugins are configured based on the current environment, plugins installed with Vagrant from source will not work with the package based Vagrant installation.

## Clone Vagrant

Clone Vagrant's repository from GitHub into the directory where you keep code on your machine.

```shell-session
$ git clone https://github.com/hashicorp/vagrant.git
```

> Next, `cd` into that path. All commands need to be initiated from this directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, `cd` into that path. You must initiate all commands from this directory.
```

```shell-session
$ cd /path/to/your/vagrant/clone
```

Use the `bundle` command with a required version\* to install the requirements.

```shell-session
$ bundle install
```

You can now start Vagrant with the `bundle` command. 

```shell-session
$ bundle exec vagrant
```

## Configure locally

In order to use your locally-installed version of Vagrant in other projects, you will need to create a binstub and add it to your path.

First, use the `bundle` command from your Vagrant directory.

```shell-session
$ bundle --binstubs exec
```

This will generate files in `exec/`, including `vagrant`. You can now specify
the full path to the `exec/vagrant` anywhere on your operating system.

```shell-session
$ /path/to/vagrant/exec/vagrant init -m hashicorp/bionic64
```

> ~> Warning messages are expected when you use a local Vagrant from source installation, since it is not supported or recommend. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-> **Tip:** Warning messages are expected when you use a local Vagrant from source installation, since it is not supported or recommend. 
```
Suggesting a tip here as it's for letting users know about something without them having to take any action.

layout: docs
page_title: Installing Vagrant from Source
description: |-
  Vagrant installations from source is an advanced operation. It is only recommended
  if you cannot use the official installer.
---

# Install Vagrant from source

> Vagrant installations from source is an advanced operation. It is only recommended

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Vagrant installations from source is an advanced operation. We only recommended
```

if you cannot use the official installer. This page details the prerequisites and three
steps to install Vagrant from source.

1. Install Ruby
1. Clone Vagrant
1. Configure locally

## Install Ruby

You must install Ruby 2.7 or newer to develop and build Vagrant. The
specific Ruby version that you will need is documented 
in `vagrant.gemspec`, located in the repository on GitHub. 
It contains the most up-to-date requirements. 

> ~> **Note:** It is not recommended that you use the system Ruby. You need a Ruby version manager like RVM or chruby.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> ~> **Note:** It is not recommended that you use the system Ruby. You need a Ruby version manager like RVM or chruby.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
~> **Note:** We do not recommended that you use the system Ruby. You need a Ruby version manager like RVM or chruby.
```

Reviewer 2: This note can be discarded now. This is less of an issue anymore now that recent rubies are generally available via system packages.

## Clone Vagrant

Clone Vagrant's repository from GitHub into the directory where you keep code on your machine.

```shell-session
$ git clone https://github.com/hashicorp/vagrant.git
```

Next, `cd` into that path. You must initiate all commands from this directory.

```shell-session
$ cd /path/to/your/vagrant/clone
```

Use the `bundle` command with a required version\* to install the requirements.

```shell-session
$ bundle install
```

You can now start Vagrant with the `bundle` command. 

```shell-session
$ bundle exec vagrant
```

## Configure locally

In order to use your locally-installed version of Vagrant in other projects, you will need to create a binstub and add it to your path.

First, use the `bundle` command from your Vagrant directory.

```shell-session
$ bundle --binstubs exec
```

This will generate files in `exec/`, including `vagrant`. You can now specify
the full path to the `exec/vagrant` anywhere on your operating system.

```shell-session
$ /path/to/vagrant/exec/vagrant init -m hashicorp/bionic64
```

> -> **Tip:** Warning messages are expected when you use a local Vagrant from source installation, since it is not supported or recommend. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-> **Tip:** Warning messages are expected when you use a local Vagrant from source installation, since it is not supported or recommended. 
```
